---
docstatus: 30%  # one of {DRAFT, 30%, 90%, COMPLETE}
id: desktop-wallet
title: QRL Desktop Wallet
hide_title: false
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_label: Desktop Wallet
sidebar_position: 1
pagination_label: QRL Desktop Wallet
custom_edit_url: https://github.com/theQRL/documentation/edit/main/docs/Wallet/qrl-wallet.md
description: Desktop Wallet
keywords:
  - docs
  - wallet
  - Desktop
image: /assets/img/icons/yellow.png
slug: /wallet/desktop
---


:::caution DOCUMENT STATUS 
<span>This document is in: <b>{frontMatter.docstatus}</b> status and needs additional input!</span>
:::

The QRL Desktop wallet provides users the ability to create new QRL wallets, open existing wallets from private keys *(Hexseed or Mnemonic)* or wallet files. 

The QRL Wallet is the main interaction point for most users to the QRL blockchain. This provides a portal and all of the tools to interact with the chain.

## Download 

The wallet is supported across most modern operating systems and can be installed on Windows, MacOS, and Linux.

Grab the latest release following the link below. 

<div style={{textAlign: 'justified'}}>
<a href="https://github.com/theQRL/qrl-wallet/releases/latest" class="button"> Latest Desktop Wallet Release </a>
</div>


## Best Practice

General best practice security and safe keeping.

- Backup secret keys and or wallet files.
- Ensure backups at rest in digital format are encrypted. 
- Ensure physical backups are kept safe from theft
- Verify backup files are functional and open the original address prior to funding
- Keep track of used OTS keys and never attempt to reuse.
- Disconnect the computer from the network to generate a new QRL address offline


### Security

The security and privacy of the generated cryptographic keys are the responsibility of the end user. The QRL has been audited by multiple 3rd parties for appropriate integration of critical functions. The final piece relies on the end user.

The private keys generated by the wallet are the only way to access the funds contained in the wallet, anyone with access to them can take the funds.

:::tip
Security and safekeeping is the responsibility of the end user. It is recommended that multiple backups of encrypted wallet keys are kept to ensure no loss of funds occurs.
:::



## Install

Follow our guide on Installing the Desktop wallet for all operating systems supported.

:::info Desktop Installation Instructions
[Install QRL Desktop Wallet](desktop/desktop-wallet-install)
:::
## New Wallet

The wallet will hold funds for a user and is required to interact with QRL systems.

:::tip Create New Wallet Instructions
[Follow This Guide to create a new QRL wallet](desktop/desktop-wallet-new)
:::

## Backup Wallet

Make sure to backup your wallet and verify the backup is functional prior to funding the address.

:::info Desktop Backup Wallet Documentation
Follow [this guide to backup the Desktop Wallet](desktop/desktop-wallet-backup).
:::

## Open Wallet

Recovering or opening a QRL Wallet allows access to the funds and utilization of tools using those keys.

:::tip Open Desktop Wallet Address

[Follow these instructions to open or recover an address.](desktop/desktop-wallet-open)
:::

:::note This requires a secret key or wallet file.
:::

## Send Funds

Using the Desktop QRL Wallet to send QRL to another address. Otherwise known as transferring funds.

:::info Send QRL Funds
[Follow this guide to send QRL to another address suing the Desktop Wallet.](desktop/desktop-wallet-send)
:::

:::note This requires a secret key or wallet file.
:::

## Wallet Tools


:::tip Desktop Wallet Tools
[Follow this guide for more information on the Desktop Wallet tools available.](desktop/desktop-wallet-tools)
:::